Prohibition was good and we should not have repealed it.
Timmy Teetotaler 
	The Twenty-First Amendment was ratified and an era of American history has ended. In one fell swoop, the federal government ended one of the greatest reform attempts in modern history. We had it! We had outlawed production and sale of alcohol1! This repeal is a short-sighted mistake.
	Ever since the Woman's Christian Temperance Union was started in 1873, a dry United States has been a wish that many an American woman has espoused. An end to the tyranny of the drunk husband was on the cusp of possibility and the American people just ignored it. The Prohibition made for a great victory for us dry supporters, however, it allowed for the growth of the mob and of organized crime2. Incidentally, it also brought the stock car racing movement3. Had the federal government simply enforced laws and stopped that organized crime, then we would have had not only the peace before Prohibition but also the moral victory of it. I lament the wives abused and ignored by drunk spouses and the lost productivity from indulging rather than partaking in industry.
	As data becomes available from this now-dead era of progressivism, we have found that the rates of liver cirrhosis, a disease caused by indulging in drink, dropped substantially along with consumption of alcohol4. That which I do not understand, though, is why this successful experiment was canceled. Was it the Germans who so loved their light beverages or the Irish who loved their heavier ones? Or was it a sliding-back of the public? 
Word count: 252
(No)
Bruh, I can’t believe they banned alcohol
Anheuser Friendsmarter
	The fact is that Congress and the states passed the Twenty-First Amendment. Whether the expansion of personal freedom is inevitable or that we collectively want to get sloshed, alcohol is once again legal nationwide. It seems that the prohibitionists could not quite capture the public imagination in the same way they captured the legislative one. Prohibition was not good because of its motivations and unintended consequences.
